The YakIO Library File List

YakIO is an open source library and example compilation toolchain which 
is intended to enable the creation C++ programs for the BBC micro:bit
microcontroller.

Include             - a directory containing all of the header files for 
                      the YakIO Library. User written code will #include
                      these file as necessary.
                      
Objects             - a directory containing the compiled .o object files 
                      of the YakIO Library. The user code links against the 
                      files in this directory.
                      
Source              - a directory containing the declarations and member
                      function definitions for the YakIO library classes.

aaReadMe.txt        - a file containing information about the code in the 
                      YakIO library. If you wish to recompile the YakIO
                      library you should read this file - it contains 
                      valuable, relevant, information.
                      
abFiles.txt         - this file.

CompileYakIO.bat    - a Windows batch script to compile the YakIO Library
                      to .o object files. These are later linked with user
                      written code to provide functionality there.

libgcc.a            - Basic ARM Cortex CPU's such as are used on the 
                      microbit do not contain opcodes for certain types 
                      of instructions (such as division). This is a 
                      standard C++ library which needs to be linked
                      with so the C++ compiler can do that sort of thing 
                      in software. 
                      
                      Typically, this library is linked in by placing a flag
                      on the call to the linker which identifies where it 
                      can be found in a folder of standard C++ libraries. 
                      However, it was felt that that getting that right 
                      was just one more thing which could "break" a  
                      compilation tool chain for the inexperienced.
                      
                      So, the libgcc.a file was just copied out and placed 
                      in the YakIO directory. You can edit the CompileProgram.bat  
                      file in the User (Example) directories and do it right 
                      if you wish. Beware! There are lots of libgcc.a files
                      to choose from in the many directories associated 
                      with the arm-none-eabi-gcc compiler. This particular 
                      libgcc.a file came from the
                      
                      ....\lib\gcc\arm-none-eabi\4.9.3\armv6-m
                      
                      sub folder. Lots of the others simply do NOT work.

microbit.ld         - The linker script. Used by the CompileProgram.bat
                      scripts in the User (Example) directories to link
                      the YakIO libraries with the user written code. Not 
                      normally user editable.




